TELCODOCS-992: deploying modules and creating a multiloader image (#56120)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/kmm-security.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * hardware_enablement/kmm-kernel-module-management.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="kmm-security_{context}"]

= Security and permissions

[IMPORTANT]
====
Loading kernel modules is a highly sensitive operation.

> Once loaded, kernel modules have all possible permissions to do any kind of operation on the node.

Reviewer: changed.

====

== `ServiceAccounts` and `SecurityContextConstraints`

> Kernel Module Management creates a privileged workload to load the kernel modules on nodes.

Reviewer: changed.

> That workload needs `ServiceAccounts` allowed to use the `privileged` `SecurityContextConstraint` (SCC).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That workload needs `ServiceAccounts` allowed to use the `privileged` `SecurityContextConstraint` (SCC) resource.
```

Author: Done.

The authorization model for that workload depends on the namespace of the `Module` resource, as well as its spec.

* If the `.spec.moduleLoader.serviceAccountName` or `.spec.devicePlugin.serviceAccountName` fields are set, they are always used.

> * If those fields are not set, then.

Reviewer: changed.

>  ** If the `Module` resource is created in the operator's namespace (`openshift-kmm` by default), then KMM uses its default, powerful `ServiceAccounts` to run the daemon set resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 ** If the `Module` resource is created in the operator's namespace (`openshift-kmm` by default), then KMM uses its default, powerful `ServiceAccounts` to run the daemon sets.
```

Author: Done.

>  ** If the `Module` resource is created in any other namespace, then KMM runs the daemon sets as the namespace's `default` `ServiceAccount`. The `Module` resource cannot run privileged workload unless you manually enable it to use the `privileged` SCC.

Reviewer: added "a".

>  ** If the `Module` resource is created in any other namespace, then KMM runs the daemon set resources as the namespace `default` `ServiceAccount`. The `Module` resource cannot run privileged workload unless you manually enable it to use the `privileged` SCC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 ** If the `Module` resource is created in any other namespace, then KMM runs the daemon sets as the namespace's `default` `ServiceAccount`. The `Module` resource cannot run privileged workload unless you manually enable it to use the `privileged` SCC.
```

Author: Done.

> [IMPORTANT]

Reviewer: Applies to section

====
`openshift-kmm` is a trusted namespace.

> When setting up RBAC permissions, keep in mind that any user or `ServiceAccount` creating a `Module` resource in the `openshift-kmm` namespace results in KMM automatically running privileged workloads on potentially all nodes in the cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When setting up RBAC permissions, remember that any user or `ServiceAccount` creating a `Module` resource in the `openshift-kmm` namespace results in KMM automatically running privileged workloads on potentially all nodes in the cluster.
```

Author: Done.

====

> To allow any `ServiceAccount` to use the `privileged` SCC and hence to run module loader and / or device plugin pods, use the following command:

Reviewer: changed.

[source,shell]
----

> oc adm policy add-scc-to-user privileged -z "${serviceAccountName}" [ -n "${namespace}" ]

Reviewer: changed.

----

> == Pod Security Standards

Author: Done.

> OpenShift runs a https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/authentication/understanding-and-managing-pod-security-admission.html[synchronization mechanism]

Reviewer: Moved the link to the Assembly.
